# Manage Data for an Online Grocer Using MySQL Workbench (on Coursera)

### Overview

In this project, you will step into the shoes of an entry-level back-end developer. You will use your database design and development skills as you help to reorganize spreadsheet data into a database that supports an online grocery business as they expand their offerings.


### Project Scenario

Greenspot Grocer is a (fictional) small, family-owned online grocery store that is growing rapidly and planning a major expansion. They are currently storing their product data in a spreadsheet format that has become unwieldy and will soon be unable to accommodate their growing inventory.  

They want you, as a back-end developer, to examine their current data and design a relational database that will be able provide the ability to organize and store current data, while providing scalability as the business expands its product offerings.  


### Project Objectives

1. Examine the current data and reorganize it into relational tables using the modeling tool in MySQL Workbench. 
2. Create and load the database with the sample data provided. 
3. Test the database design and verify the design by generating SQL JOIN queries.


### Your Challenge

Your challenge will be to build a database that can be used to store and organize the sample data from the .csv file. To do this, you will:
* Explore the sample data, looking for fields that should be grouped together in tables. Then identify logical relationships among those tables.
* Use the Modeling tool in MySQL Workbench to generate a database model that includes tables, with their fields, and shows relationships between tables with primary keys, and foreign keys where applicable.
* Implement your database design in MySQL Workbench by creating the database and its tables and populating the tables with the sample data provided. 
* You will also generate SQL JOIN queries to prove the validity of your database design by proving that data can be retrieved from multiple tables in a single query.

In this project, we'll use [fictional sample data](https://github.com/paridhijain5/Portfolio/blob/main/Manage%20Data%20for%20an%20Online%20Grocer%20Using%20MySQL%20Workbench/Greengrocer%20Dataset.csv) provided for you in the form of a .csv file.

After you perform your analysis, you will share your findings by providing:
* A [database model](https://github.com/paridhijain5/Portfolio/blob/main/Manage%20Data%20for%20an%20Online%20Grocer%20Using%20MySQL%20Workbench/Greengrocer%20EER%20Diagram.mwb) (and Extended Entity-Relationship Diagram generated by the MySQL Workbench Modeling tool)
[EER Diagram Image](https://github.com/paridhijain5/Portfolio/blob/main/Manage%20Data%20for%20an%20Online%20Grocer%20Using%20MySQL%20Workbench/EER%20Diagram.png)
* The [database](https://github.com/paridhijain5/Portfolio/blob/main/Manage%20Data%20for%20an%20Online%20Grocer%20Using%20MySQL%20Workbench/database%20script.sql), exported as a an SQL script
* One or more [SQL queries](https://github.com/paridhijain5/Portfolio/blob/main/Manage%20Data%20for%20an%20Online%20Grocer%20Using%20MySQL%20Workbench/sql%20queries%20greengrocer.sql) (exported as SQL scripts) that prove your database design provides access to all related tables.


### Check Your Work

Here's a checklist for generating an exceptional database design project:

1. Database Design: The learner should demonstrate a deep understanding database design. The following should be included:
* A clear understanding of the setup of the sample data file and how it is used to store each grocery store purchase or sale
* An explanation of any possible anomalies or potential dangers of storing data in the format used in the sample data file
* An EER (Extended Entity-Relationship diagram) is generated as a clear visualization of which fields should be grouped together in tables and how the tables are related via common data fields. The EER contains:
      * an object for each table
      * all fields and datatypes listed for each table
      * one or more fields designated as the primary key for each table
      * foreign keys added to tables and defined where appropriate
      * connectors between related tables

2. Database Creation: The learner should effectively demonstrate the ability to create a database. The following should be included:
* A database schema that contains the tables identified in the EER 
* Names of tables and fields are consistent and meaningful (for example, "customerID" is preferable to "CID")
* Each table includes a primary key and any additional columns specified in the EER
* Each field in a table has an appropriate datatype assigned
* Foreign key values match the values in the primary keys to which they refer
* All data from the sample data file is resident in the database

3. Database Testing: The learner should use a variety of SQL queries to test the relationships between tables. The following should be included:
* One or more queries that demonstrate the joining of tables with SQL code
* One or more queries that provide proof an SQL query can be used to answer a business question (for example: can we produce a query that displays all of the data necessary to produce a purchase order?)
* Proof that data can be retrieved from all of the tables in one query

4. Insights and Conclusions: The learner should draw insightful conclusions from the database development process and communicate those conclusions. The following should be included:
* A description of the anomalies and potential problems in the original sample dataset 
* An explanation of how the database design addresses those anomalies and potential problems
* A discussion of how and why the database design will support the growth of the business as the product lines are expanded
* Suggestions for possible database additions or changes in the future that might make the database design even more valuable to the business


## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License: see the [MIT License](https://github.com/paridhijain5/Portfolio/blob/main/LICENSE) file details here.
